If your code is organized as DataFrame,
order dependencies can become a big problem.
Dataset provides type safety,
but since it's not available in Python,
we need to enforce schema on data.
You might need to figure out how to call 20 functions in
exactly the right order to get the desired result.
A StructType columns are one way to eliminate order dependencies from your code.
Let's go through some sample code on how to create schema for your data.
In this demo, we will see how enforcing schema helps with your data quality.
We'll also use StructType and struct fields in SQL.types library.
Here we'll be importing Spark session to create our Spark session.
As we said before,
I'll be importing the types library,
and we'll create a Spark session.
Let's create a DataFrame that contains
country name and the cities and population for each city.
So I'm going to create a three lists countries.
I'm just going to do two countries for Columbia.
One is USA, and then cities list,
which has probably the most populated cities in both countries and New York.
For population, let's say we have a string value and an integer.
Now I'm going to create a schema for the DataFrame that I'm going to create.
So what I can do is,
create a variable called schema,
and I'm going to wrap this with StructType.
StructType is inside of the scaled-up types library.
I'm going to construct fields,
countries, cities, and population using StructField.
Then this will be a string type, and true.
This means the column could be null-able.
Next field I'm going to do is the cities,
string type also, and I can do population.
Then we want to put it as an integer type.
Now what I can do is create a DataFrame enforcing
these schema on top of three different lists.
I can do zip all three lists.
In order of countries, cities,
population, and I'm going to enforce schema using that schema.
Then you can see that it throws an error where it is expecting value error,
verify where it's not accepting a certain type.
The typer says, "The field population,
integer type cannot accept object."
Because this was a string value.
So if I change this value into an integer type,
for example like this,
and then do this again,
this won't run successfully,
and since there's only two of them, I can do this.
So creating schema actually enforces on your data quality to have
a cleaner dataset especially for languages like Python which is not type-safe.